George Walker Bush (born July 6, 1946) became the 43rd and current President of the United States of America in 2001. Immediately prior to attaining the office, he was Governor of the State of Texas. Bush was the winner of one of the closest elections in American history, defeating one of the other candidates, Democratic Vice President Albert Gore, by only 5 electoral votes in an election where less than 50% of the electorate went out to vote. (See U.S. presidential election, 2000.) The election results were hotly contested for several weeks until December 12, 2000 when the US Supreme Court ruled in favor of Bush in the case Bush v. Gore. Bush took his oath of office and was inaugurated as President on January 20, 2001. His father, George H. W. Bush, was the 41st President of the United States.
Among his cabinet appointees have been: Colin Powell, Secretary of State; Donald Rumsfeld, Secretary of Defense; Spencer Abraham, Secretary of Energy; Gale Norton, Secretary of the Interior; and Tommy Thompson, Secretary of Health and Human Services. His controversial appointee for Attorney General was John Ashcroft. Condoleeza Rice is his National Security Advisor.
Bush is the second U.S. President to be the son of a President; John Quincy Adams was the first. In fact, Bush comes from a family with a long history of success in politics. Aside from being the son of the 41st President, his grandfather Prescott Bush served as a US Senator from Connecticut his brother Jeb Bush is the current Governor of Florida. However, his younger brother Neil Bush was on the board of directors of Silverado Savings and Loan during the Savings and Loans scandals of the 1980s.
As the eldest son of George H. W. Bush, G. W. Bush's nickname with his family and close friends is "Junior". Well known for his like of nicknames and habit of bestowing others with them, Bush also goes by the nicknames "W", "GW", or "Dubya". Both "Junior" and "Dubya" are used affectionately by friends and supporters and mockingly by critics.
